SimpleBase
==========
This is my own take for a Base32 encoder/decoder. I started to write it around a year ago as 
a coding practice and kept it as a small pet project. I suggest anyone who wants to brush up 
their coding skills to give Base32 a shot. It turned out to be more challenging than I expected. 
I had to get a pen and paper to see where bits go. 

Features
--------
 - Base32: RFC 4648, Crockford and Extended Hex (BASE32-HEX) alphabets with Crockford 
character substitution (or any other custom alphabets you might want to use)
 - Base58: Bitcoin, Ripple and Flickr alphabets (and any custom alphabet you might have)
 - Thread-safe
 - Simple to use

NuGet
------
To install it from NuGet:

  `Install-Package SimpleBase`

Usage
------------

### Base32

Encode a byte array:

```csharp
using SimpleBase;
// ...
byte[] myBuffer;
string result = Base32.Crockford.Encode(myBuffer, padding: true);
// you can also use "ExtendedHex" or "Rfc4648" as encoder flavors
```

Decode a Base32-encoded string:

```csharp
using SimpleBase;
// ...
string myText;
byte[] result = Base32.Crockford.Decode(myText);
// you can also use "ExtendedHex" or "Rfc4648" as decoder flavors
```

### Base58

Encode a byte array:

```csharp
using SimpleBase;
// ...
byte[] myBuffer;
string result = Base58.Bitcoin.Encode(myBuffer);
// you can also use "Ripple" or "Flickr" as encoder flavors
```

Decode a Base58-encoded string:

```csharp
using SimpleBase;
// ...
string myText;
byte[] result = Base58.Bitcoin.Decode(myText);
// you can also use "Ripple" or "Flickr" as decoder flavors
```


Notes
-----
I'm sure there are areas for improvement. I included a benchmark suite against .NET's Base64 encoder/decoder. 
Base64 coding is simpler and Microsoft's implementation is very good in performance. Yet this suite is 
only ~3x slower in encoding and ~1.5x slower in decoding on my machine. I didn't want to go further 
in optimizations which would hurt readability and extensibility.

The Base58 implementation I added is even 30% faster than Microsoft's Base64. It is quite suitable
for encoding randomly generated bytes because it doesn't contain any special characters and avoids
certain characters that hurt legibility (like Base32 Crockford alphabet).

Test suite isn't complete, I took most of it from RFC4648. Increase to test coverage is appreciated.

Thanks
------
Chatting about this pet project with my friends @detaybey, @vhallac, @alkimake and @Utopians last night actually encouraged me to 
finish this. Thanks guys. Special thanks to my wife for unlimited tea and love.
